# Rails webstore

Web store implementation, using Ruby on Rails.

## Technologies

- Ruby on Rails
- Docker
- PostgreSQL
- Vanilla Javascript + JQuery

## System dependencies

### The app is run through Docker, which needs to be installed on your system.
 
The app contains 2 docker images; a PostgreSQL database image, and a Ruby on Rails app.

Containers that are generated by the two images:

- `app.local`
- `postgres.local`

If you wish to run `rails` commands, you can run `./bin/rails` shell script, or you can install Ruby and then install the Rails gem with `gem install rails`.

## App startup

The default Docker configuration starts the app with the `development` Rails environment.

Rename `example.env` in project root to `.env` and change the database connection values. The app will run even the file is only renamed.

If you wish to change database connections settings, you can edit the `config\database.yml` file to suit your needs.

To run the app, run `docker compose up` in project root. This will setup the database and Rails app containers and start the app, which is accessible on [`http://localhost:3000`](`http://localhost:3000`) by default.

Database is automatically seeded in the `development` environment. Database seeds are located in `db/seeds.rb`, which can be changed. 

The default seeds setup some accounts (an admin account and 3 normal users) and some default product groups and products with random prices.

### Switch to production Rails Dockerfile

Open the `docker-compose.yml` file in project root and change the line with `dockerfile: ./dev.Dockerfile` with `dockerfile: ./Dockerfile`.

You can then run `docker compose up`, which will start the app in the `production` environment in Docker.

## Features

- [x] User authentication
- [x] Ability for user to edit account settings
  - [x] User can change their display name
  - [x] User can change the displayed currency, only EUR, USD and GBP are supported
  - [x] User can manage their addresses, up to 5 can be added
- [ ] Shopping cart functionality
  - [ ] Add products to cart
  - [ ] Set product quantity in cart 
  - [ ] Create and save orders
  - [ ] Display past orders
- [ ] Admin dashboard
  - [ ] Ability to create/edit/delete user accounts
  - [ ] Ability to manage products and product groups
- [ ] Display random products on home page 